# CS-360
Mobile App Development

"Weight."



Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?

  This project actually had a few options to choose from when deciding the type of app to design and build. I chose the weight tracking app idea and really enjoyed it. I really wanted to focus on simplicity, digital minimalism, and easy functionality. There are all kinds of specialized apps that also track weight, but this one is only for tracking weights and nothing else. This app was designed to help the user not be glued to their screen all day. This app allows the user to track a weight or two for the day and that be the whole screen time required for that task. The user can then live their life and enjoy the time that is meaningful to them. The users I have identified to use this app are the following: Users generally monitoring weight for their health, fitness enthusiasts, and users looking to change their weight with a goal weight in mind. People sometimes have a hard time keeping their weight steady and need help monitoring it. General health is a great way to use this tracking app. These users are focused on maintaining a healthy lifestyle. This app can help them track their weight and make sure they are on a steady maintenance trajectory for a healthy lifestyle. Another category of users are enthusiastic about their fitness. They have weight gains they specifically want to reach. Each time they add a new weight, they may have went up on plates at the gym that month during bench presses or deadlifts, for example. They want to track their weight and are excited about it because they want to see visual progress of all of the hard work they have put into their work outs. This app can help them see their progress over time. The last category of user I am going to cover are those specifically looking to change their weight and have a goal in mind. These users are typically wanting to lose weight and know what weight they specifically want to reach. These users are looking for a way to keep them on track and accountable with each weigh in. This app can help them stay motivated in their weight goals and can even notify them as they hit their goals.
There are plenty of reasons why a user might download this weight tracking app. The user will add in a new weight daily, as well as, a goal weight which will not be changed until the user reaches it. The user will know they reached their goal weight with a notification on their device. Grids and tables will make it very easy for the user to enter internal data. The back end will store all information needed so that the user has a very quick and easy experience with it. 

What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
  The screens utilized were few! The user first sees a welcome screen: "Welcome to Weight. Where keeping track doesn't have to be hard." The user sees it for 4 second and it taken to the login screen. The login screen has very simple funcitonality and are then taken to the weight log screen. This screen has more options and funcitonality, but it is still a very simple design and straightforward. If the user just created their first account, they only see a a few columns with headers: weights, logins, and goals. If the user is a returning user, all previous weights entered with history of logins are shown to the user. The last column is optional for the users where they can add goal weights if needed. They will receive sms notifications when they reach the most recently entered goal weight. The only other screen is the add weight screen. The user can click the button on the weight log screen to reach the add weight screen. HEre they enter their daily weight. They have the option to add a goal weight, but it is not required. They then are taken back to the weight log screen. The functioanlity is very simple. All designs on all screens follow a minimalist mindset. The users will not feel overwhelmed when using this app and they will not be distracted from their lives when using it, either. 

How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?
  I really honed in on what my users need. I made my personal expectation clear from the beginning including how I wanted to launch the app. I ultimatley wanted the user to be able to live a more digital minimalist life. I want to improve their relationship with technology. I want people to be able to spend more time outside rather than being glued to their screens. I designed my app with this in mind, allowing the user to spend as little time as possible on it. The users mental health is my top priority.

How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?
  Testing my app revealed that I had a lot more work than I realized. I kept thinking I had every screen was functional, and then the app would crash each time I ran it. It took a long time to get the results I wanted. Testing is extrmely important, because you want to make sure that what you create is exceptional for the user. I would also notice during testing that buttons didn't look right or act right. It was a lot of work. 

Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
  When thinking of the full design and build process, I honestly had no idea how hard it would be to create a final product. I had to innovate when it came to my inital pseudocode and flow chart. My app is completely different than what I had originally designed. I think this is wonderful though, because the final product was better that I had imagined. I also understood the requirements immensely more after actually working on the project. When first reading about the requirements, I did not fully understand what I would be needing to do. I initially created buttons that were not big enough or the correct shapes. I had to innovate and learn how to create functional buttons that visually were stunning with great functionality. 

In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
  I honestly think that design stood out in this process. I have now confirmed that design is so special to me. I have honestly ignored this aspect of myself, but I should have been embracing it all along. I am a photographer, and I should have know that my creativity would pop up in all of my life's endeavors. I now need to find an area of this industry where I thrive. I am excited to see where that ends up being! 




Weight. Launch Plan

  The app I chose to create is a weight tracking app with a minimalistic design. The app is called "Weight." and does not distract the user from their everyday life. This app allows the user to spend less time on their phone and makes sure the user does not experience distractions from their life due to encompassing a minimalistic design. The user can log weights efficiently and quickly so that they can get back to doing what they love. 
  The launch plan will also be efficient and minimalistic. Weight. will have a short description. This will convey to the user what kind of app they are looking at. It will say, “Track weights efficiently and get back to your life. Keeping track doesn’t have to be hard.” I think the description tells the user what the app is for and also let’s them know that there will be no distractions, ads, or addicting aspects to the app when they download it. They get a sense that the developers and designers what this user to love their app which doesn’t include being glued to a screen all day. The play store icon will be very simple. The icon will actually have a black background just like all backgrounds in the app. The "W." on the icone will be white. It will have the thin white outline that all buttons in the Weight. app have. 
  The specifications for this app are as follows: Android 14, API level 34, and will allow for API level 21. This range will work well for this app because it has simple functionality and design. Users with older phones can enjoy the app just like users on a Pixel 9 can. The updates for this app will simply be for security since no changes will need to be made to the app due to its simplicity. The future versions of the app probably won’t need a lot of work due to the simple framework of this app. Permissions are required for this app to work. The user is asked whether SMS notifications are allowed right after logging into the app initially or creating a new account. These permissions are: send SMS, receive SMS, read SMS, and telephony. These requests allow the app the function properly on android phones. 
  Weight. will have no ads. The app will cost the users in a subscription fee in the Play store. They can choose how they want to pay according to the Play store’s requirements. They can choose to pay monthly or yearly. I think the app will be a very helpful app to have downloaded on their phone and many will enjoy using it. Ultimately, allowing users to really enjoy their lives away from digital screens is the ultimate payment for this developer and designer. 
